Failure & Recovery
==================

JanusGraph is a highly available and robust graph database. In large
scale JanusGraph deployments failure is inevitable. This page describes
some failure situations and how JanusGraph can handle them.

Transaction Failure
-------------------

Transactions can fail for a number of reasons. If the transaction fails
before the commit the changes will be discarded and the application can
retry the transaction in coherence with the business logic. Likewise,
locking or other consistency failures will cause an exception prior to
persistence and hence can be retried. The persistence stage of a
transaction is when JanusGraph starts persisting data to the various
backend systems.

JanusGraph first persists all graph mutations to the storage backend.
This persistence is executed as one batch mutation to ensure that the
mutation is committed atomically for those backends supporting
atomicity. If the batch mutation fails due to an exception in the
storage backend, the entire transaction is failed.

If the primary persistence into the storage backend succeeds but
secondary persistence into the indexing backends or the logging system
fail, the transaction is still considered to be successful because the
storage backend is the authoritative source of the graph.

However, this can create inconsistencies with the indexes and logs. To
automatically repair such inconsistencies, JanusGraph can maintain a
transaction write-ahead log which is enabled through the configuration.
```conf
tx.log-tx = true
tx.max-commit-time = 10000
```

The max-commit-time property is used to determine when a transaction has
failed. If the persistence stage of the transaction takes longer than
this time, JanusGraph will attempt to recover it if necessary. Hence,
this time out should be configured as a generous upper bound on the
maximum duration of persistence. Note, that this does not include the
time spent before commit.

In addition, a separate process must be setup that reads the log to
identify partially failed transaction and repair any inconsistencies
caused. It is suggested to run the transaction repair process on a
separate machine connected to the cluster to isolate failures. Configure
a separately controlled process to run the following where the start
time specifies the time since epoch where the recovery process should
start reading from the write-ahead log.
```groovy
recovery = JanusGraphFactory.startTransactionRecovery(graph, startTime, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS);
```

Enabling the transaction write-ahead log causes an additional write
operation for mutating transactions which increases the latency. Also
note, that additional space is required to store the log. The
transaction write-ahead log has a configurable time-to-live of 2 days
which means that log entries expire after that time to keep the storage
overhead small. Refer to [Configuration Reference](../basics/configuration-reference.md) for a complete list of all
log related configuration options to fine tune logging behavior.

JanusGraph Instance Failure
---------------------------

JanusGraph is robust against individual instance failure in that other
instances of the JanusGraph cluster are not impacted by such failure and
can continue processing transactions without loss of performance while
the failed instance is restarted.

However, some schema related operations - such as installing indexes -
require the coordination of all JanusGraph instances. For this reason,
JanusGraph maintains a record of all running instances. If an instance
fails, i.e. is not properly shut down, JanusGraph considers it to be
active and expects its participation in cluster-wide operations which
subsequently fail because this instances did not participate in or did
not acknowledge the operation.

In this case, the user must manually remove the failed instance record
from the cluster and then retry the operation. To remove the failed
instance, open a management transaction against any of the running
JanusGraph instances, inspect the list of running instances to identify
the failed one, and finally remove it.
```groovy
mgmt = graph.openManagement()
mgmt.getOpenInstances() //all open instances
==>7f0001016161-dunwich1(current)
==>7f0001016161-atlantis1
mgmt.forceCloseInstance('7f0001016161-atlantis1') //remove an instance
mgmt.commit()
```

The unique identifier of the current JanusGraph instance is marked with
the suffix `(current)` so that it can be easily identified. This
instance cannot be closed via the `forceCloseInstance` method and
instead should be closed via `g.close()`

It must be ensured that the manually removed instance is indeed no
longer active. Removing an active JanusGraph instance from a cluster can
cause data inconsistencies. Hence, use this method with great care in
particular when JanusGraph is operated in an environment where instances
are automatically restarted.
